=============
AI visibility
=============

The theme ships defaults that help AI agents and LLM-based tools discover, fetch, and cite ScyllaDB documentation.

What the theme provides
-----------------------

At build time, the theme automatically generates:

* An ``llms.txt`` index file at the project root, following the `llms.txt proposal <https://llmstxt.org>`_.
* An ``llms-full.txt`` file containing the full documentation concatenated into a single Markdown document.
* A Markdown version of every page (``page.md`` and ``page.html.md``), so agents can request the content in plain Markdown instead of parsing HTML.

In every HTML page rendered by the theme, the layout also injects:

* A ``<link rel="alternate" type="text/markdown">`` tag in ``<head>`` pointing to the Markdown version of the page.
* A visually hidden directive near the top of the content area pointing AI agents to ``/llms.txt`` and to the Markdown version of the current page.

How it works
------------

The theme bundles `sphinx-llm <https://github.com/NVIDIA/sphinx-llm>`_ and registers its ``sphinx_llm.txt`` extension automatically. No configuration is required in your project's ``conf.py``.

Output layout
-------------

For a single-version project, files are generated at the build root::

    _build/dirhtml/
    ├── llms.txt
    ├── llms-full.txt
    ├── index.html
    ├── index.md
    ├── index.html.md
    ├── getting-started.html
    ├── getting-started.md
    └── getting-started.html.md

For a multiversion project, each version gets its own set::

    _build/dirhtml/
    ├── stable/
    │   ├── llms.txt
    │   ├── llms-full.txt
    │   └── ...
    └── master/
        ├── llms.txt
        ├── llms-full.txt
        └── ...

Configuration options
---------------------

sphinx-llm exposes a options you can override in ``conf.py`` if needed:

.. list-table::
  :widths: 30 15 15 40
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Option
    - Type
    - Default Value
    - Description
  * - ``llms_txt_enabled``
    - bool
    - true
    - Enables or disables the extension.
  * - ``llms_txt_description``
    - string
    - Project description
    - Description shown at the top of ``llms.txt``.
  * - ``llms_txt_full_build``
    - bool
    - true
    - Whether to also generate the ``llms-full.txt`` concatenated file.
  * - ``llms_txt_suffix_mode``
    - string
    - auto
    - Which Markdown filename pattern to generate. ``auto`` produces both ``page.md`` (URL-suffix) and ``page.html.md`` (file-suffix) variants.

See the `sphinx-llm documentation <https://github.com/NVIDIA/sphinx-llm#readme>`_ for the full list.

Caveats
-------

Some AI-readiness checks remain unsatisfied by design or by hosting constraints:

* **Content negotiation** (``Accept: text/markdown``) — GitHub Pages and the Fastly CDN in front of it do not honor the ``Accept`` header. Serving Markdown when this header is present requires a CDN-level rule (Cloudflare Worker, Fastly VCL, or similar).
* **Root meta-refresh redirect** — The ``index.html`` at the project root that redirects to the latest version is generated by this theme's multiversion extension (see ``sphinx_scylladb_theme/extensions/multiversion.py``). It is an intentional, per-project feature for multiversion sites. Agent-readiness audits will flag it as a JavaScript redirect, but the meta-refresh is the most portable option for static hosting (GitHub Pages) and is kept by design.
